As the world's largest soda ash mine and manufacturing plant, this facility is a very valuable asset for Genesis Alkali Holdings.

During this evaluation, eight fire sprinkler control valves were improperly closed as FM Global was not notified of the impairments. A fire involving improperly closed valves (ICVs) is usually devastating. Often, entire buildings and structures are lost as the result of a fire that would have been controlled within a small area if sprinklers had been able to function as designed.

Fire And Natural Hazards (F&NH):
From F&NH perspective, ignitable liquids at the ELDM plant remain one of the largest exposures here. Their ability to spread over a large area and their high heat of combustion make them difficult to extinguish, which results in large fires with considerable smoke and water damage. Improving the storage of ignitable liquids at the ELDM plant, as outlined in this report, would help to reduce the likelihood of a severe ignitable liquid fire.

Boiler and Machinery (B&M):
From the B&M perspective, the primary hazard is failure of the electrical infrastructure, specifically the medium voltage switchgear batteries. These batteries are part of the critical safety device for the switchgear. The next step is to improve the asset management by monitoring and controlling the temperature to as close to 77°F as practical, and have a remote alarm to a constantly attended location.

A robust asset integrity strategy coupled with thorough documentation, is necessary for trending, predicting, outage planning, and/or supporting an effective asset management program. Management and maintenance personnel have been working diligently to improve the asset integrity programs, and should be commended for their ongoing efforts in this area. Any gaps in maintenance routines are identified and reviewed for implementation.

In addition to the formal recommendations in this report, minor recommendations are offered in the Comments section that also represent good loss prevention advice and should be completed.

FM Global's
FMG 
AFM 
Affiliated FM
fmglobal.com/liquid
fmglobaldatasheets.com
fmglobalcatalog.com
fmglobal.com/training-center